In this video, we're going to learn how to find the inverse of a matrix
that we know to be invertible. So to start with, let's suppose we have
a linear transformation from R^3 to R^3 that we know has an inverse map.
T inverse. So the basic idea is if I want to write down the standard
matrix for T inverse, I need to know what T
inverse of e1 is. That would give me the first column
T inverse of e2, our second basis vector,  would give us the second column
and T inverse of e3 will give us the third column.
So I don't know what these are. I'm just gonna give them names for the moment. v1, v2, and v3.
Whatever those are, those will give me the three columns of our matrix.
But note that saying that T inverse of e1 is equal to v1, what
T inverse does is it's gonna send e1 back where it came from.
So what that tells us is that T(v1)
had to be e1. And we want to know where e1 came from
to send it back to. And same thing T(v2)
needs to be e2 and T(v3)
needs to be e3. So that's
the idea in principle. So let's look at an example with an actual
concrete matrix and we'll see how this works.
So let's suppose we have the map given by the matrix A -- 1 2 1,
2 5 1
-2 -5 0
All right, so if we want to figure out what v1 is, we need to figure out what A
maps to each one. So we kind of want to solve.
Ax produces e1.
So if we're thinking about that as an augmented matrix, we have A
two five one negative to negative five zero.
And we want to produce the vector one zero, zero.
And as usual, we're solving this system, so we'll compute the reduced row echelon form.
And we've produced the Matrix 1 0 0; 0 1 0
0 0 1. And we have
5 -2 0
So note that the left side here to the left of our augmented bar better
be the identity matrix because the left side here is just the row
reduced form of A. And so this simpler
system here is telling us that the first component is 5. The second component is 2. The last component
is zero. So now we know that T inverse e one,
that thing we're calling v1 is the vector
5 -2 0
All right. So that's gonna be the first column of A inverse. Maybe I will
change colors and write that up here. A Inverse.
The first column is 5 -2 0.
In our second column, we'll need to solve.
A X equals e2. So now
instead of augmenting with the vector 1 0 0 augment with the vector 0 1 0.
The left side is going to look the same.
We'll compute our reduced row echelon form, not surprisingly, to
the left of the augmented bar, we get the identity matrix again.
And now we produce the vector -5 -2 1
So this tells us that that vector v2 we were looking for
is equal to negative 5, negative 2
1. So T maps negative 5 negative 2 1 to our vector e2
So T inverse of e2 is negative 5 negative 2 and 1.
And finally, we'll do the same thing for our last basis vector we want
to solve A X equals e3.
So we'll do the reduced row echelon form
Now we're going to augment with e3.
Once again, type that in calculator and we produce
1 0 0 ; 0 1 0; 0 0 1;
And this gets augmented with negative 3 1 1.
Tells us that t of the vector -3 1 1
produces the vector 0 0 1
which is equivalent to saying that
T inverse of e3 ( 0 0 1 )
is -3 1 1. So that's our third
column of A inverse.
So this is our inverse matrix right here.
So one thing to noteis that if we're gonna do all these reductions by hand,
we think about kind of our algorithm moving from left to right across the matrix.
Here we're gonna do the same moves in all of these.
Three different row reductions we did. And what's happening to the right of the augmented bar is just
keeping track of what those moves are. So you can save yourself a little bit
of punching in the calculator here. If instead
you look at the matrix write down A
to 1 to 5 1 and negative 2 negative
and you can go ahead and augment with all three
of these at the same time.
And you can check if you type it in your calculator. What you end up with on the left side
is exactly as before because we're still doing the same moves. And on the right side, the first
column is what we got the first time. Second column is what we
got. The second time and the third column is what we got.
The third time. So kind of a shorter way of saying this
is that if you do the reduced row echelon form.
Your matrix, a augmented with the identity matrix.
You're going to produce the identity matrix augmented with.
The inverse matrix. So you can use this to save yourself a little bit of time typing
this into your calculator. You really only have to type one thing in here instead of doing three different
matrices.